DOCSUP-16819: Add CapnProto output format (#31405)
ClickHouse/ClickHouse: docs/en/interfaces/formats.md

| `TEXT, DATA`                   | [String](../sql-reference/data-types/string.md), [FixedString](../sql-reference/data-types/fixedstring.md)               | `TEXT, DATA`                       |
| `union(T, Void), union(Void, T)`          | [Nullable(T)](../sql-reference/data-types/date.md)       | `union(T, Void), union(Void, T)`                       |
| `ENUM`                         | [Enum(8\|16)](../sql-reference/data-types/enum.md)        | `ENUM`                         |
| `LIST`                         | [Array](../sql-reference/data-types/array.md)             | `LIST`                         |
| `STRUCT`                       | [Tuple](../sql-reference/data-types/tuple.md)             | `STRUCT`                       |

For working with `Enum` in CapnProto format use the [format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode](../operations/settings/settings.md#format-capn-proto-enum-comparising-mode) setting.

Arrays can be nested and can have a value of the `Nullable` type as an argument. `Tuple` type also can be nested.

Unsupported CapnProto data types: `TIME32`, `FIXED_SIZE_BINARY`, `JSON`, `UUID`.

> Data types of ClickHouse table columns can differ from the corresponding fields of the Parquet data inserted. When inserting data, ClickHouse interprets data types according to the table above and then [cast](../sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions/#type_conversion_function-cast) the data to that data type which is set for the ClickHouse table column.

Reviewer: It's about `Parquet` format, it's not true for `CapnProto`

### Inserting and Selecting Data {#inserting-and-selecting-data-capnproto}

You can insert CapnProto data from a file into ClickHouse table by the following command:

``` bash

> $ cat capnproto_messages.bin | clickhouse-client --query "INSERT INTO {some_table} FORMAT CapnProto SETTINGS format_schema = 'schema:Message'"

Reviewer: We should remain table `test.hits`, because we also show an examle of using the schema with fields from this table

}
```

> To insert data into [Nested](../sql-reference/data-types/nested-data-structures/nested.md) columns as an array of structs values you must enable the [input_format_parquet_import_nested](../operations/settings/settings.md#input_format_parquet_import_nested) setting.

Reviewer: It's not connected with `CapnProto` format at all.

> To insert data into [Nested](../sql-reference/data-types/nested-data-structures/nested.md) columns as an array of structs values you must switch on the [input_format_parquet_import_nested](../operations/settings/settings.md#input_format_parquet_import_nested) setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To insert data into [Nested](../sql-reference/data-types/nested-data-structures/nested.md) columns as an array of structs values you must enable the [input_format_parquet_import_nested](../operations/settings/settings.md#input_format_parquet_import_nested) setting.
```

You can select data from a ClickHouse table and save them into some file in the CapnProto format by the following command:

``` bash

> $ clickhouse-client --query = "SELECT * FROM capnp_tuples FORMAT CapnProto SETTINGS format_schema = '$CLIENT_SCHEMADIR/02030_capnp_tuples:Message'"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ clickhouse-client --query = "SELECT * FROM test.hits FORMAT CapnProto SETTINGS format_schema = 'schema:Message'"
```
Let's use an example with `test.hits` and corresponding schema from previous example.
